The Project Gutenberg eBook, Christ the True Melchisedec, by John Church


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions 
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at 
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.




Title: Christ the True Melchisedec


Author: John Church



Release Date: January 3, 2019  [eBook #58603]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8


***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CHRIST THE TRUE MELCHISEDEC***


Transcribed from the 1813 R. Thomas edition by David Price, email
ccx074@pglaf.org

                   [Picture: Public domain book cover]





                                  CHRIST
                         _THE TRUE MELCHISEDEC_.


                           BEING THE SUBSTANCE

                                   OF A

                                 SERMON,

               Preached on SUNDAY Evening, JULY 24th, 1813,

                          At the Obelisk Chapel.

                                * * * * *

                             _BY J. CHURCH_,
                         MINISTER OF THE GOSPEL.

                                * * * * *

       “Your Father _Abraham_ rejoiced to see my day—he saw it and was
                           glad.”  _John_ viii, 56.

  “He will bless the House of Israel—he will bless the House of Aaron.”
                              _Psalm_ cxv.—

                                * * * * *

         [Picture: Decorative graphic with London printed in it]

            PRINTED BY R. THOMAS, 11, RED LION STREET, BOROUGH

                                * * * * *

                                  1813.

                                * * * * *




CHRIST THE TRUE MELCHISEDEC.


            “_Now consider how great this Man was_.”—Heb. vii, 4.

THE sacred pages are an exhibition of the loving heart of a covenant God,
Father, Son, and Spirit; from whence flow all the blessings of eternal
life to guilty man.  All spring from love, for _God is love_—he is love
itself, the fountain of it.  He loves himself, his Son, and the eternal
Spirit—it is a perfection of his nature, boundless and incomprehensible.
This eternal Three in the One Jehovah, hath condescended of his sovereign
goodwill and pleasure, to love and chuse millions of men, though fallen
and depraved, guilty and hell-deserving—yet in a way of mercy, pity, and
compassion, determined to shew how far this love could go—the Covenant of
Redemption being made in eternity, wherein the Father proposed to call
his dear Son to engage in the Work of Salvation—the Son as graciously
accepting, offering himself to be all, and do all in the great Work of
Redemption, it was purposed he should assume the nature of his people—for
this grand purpose, that he might represent them, obey, suffer, and die
for them; for which he should be glorified in that nature—see the travail
of his soul, and be delighted with all the happy consequences of his
Work.  This being settled in infinite wisdom, our dear Lord anticipated
the pleasure of it before the world began—_My delights were with the Sons
of Men_.

On the sixth day of the creation he formed his creature, Man, in the
image in which he intended to appear four thousand years after.  His
heart was so intent upon this great Work, that directly after the Fall,
yea, the very same day that Adam sinned, the dear Redeemer hastened to
make known the Covenant of Redemption and Mercy—and even before he
pronounced the Curse in consequence of transgression, he pronounced the
Blessing!

Adam heard the voice of the Lord God walking in the Garden—the WORD that
was to be made flesh, that spoke for us in the Covenant—he came, and
foretold his future incarnation—promised victory, and threatened Satan,
who was the instigation of the Fall.  He frequently manifested his
gracious intention—proved himself to be the glorious Mediator, and that
he longed to become incarnate, to manifest his grace by dying in our
stead.  In the act of cloathing our guilty parents, he shewed himself the
_end of the Law for Righteousness_.  In Abel’s Person and Offering, he
shewed himself the acceptable Sacrifice—the Lamb to take away sin.  In
the Person of Noah, the Ark he built, the Sacrifice he offered, the
Covenant made with him in the Rainbow (as the outward sign of it) were
sweet tokens of him _who is mighty to save_.  The Blessing of Shem,
clearly pointed out his gracious intention—_God shall enlarge Japheth_,
_and HE_ (_God_) _shall dwell in the tents of Shem_.  _The Word was made
flesh_, _and dwelt among us_.

He afterwards singles out Abram, the Father of the Faithful, (of the line
of Shem) called him out of darkness, favored him with several glorious
visions of himself, as predicting his future incarnation, for _he saw his
day and was glad_.  Abraham, under peculiar leadings of Providence, was
for a season, situated at Mamre, where he built an altar to the Lord.
This Mamre was in Kirath-Arba, afterwards called Hebron, where David
reigned for a season.  But, alas, a christian is seldom long at ease; we
have no continuing city, we seek one to come—no place, or house, or
family, is free from trouble long together, from the palace to the most
retired cot.  Sad news was brought to Abraham, that his nephew, Lot, was
taken prisoner, and almost all his goods seized, by Cherdorlaomer and his
allies, who were at that time ravaging the country.  Abraham directly
took his servants and friends and pursued the enemy to Hobah, and
overtook their captives and the booty, and of course restored Lot.

When Abraham was returning from routing Chedorlaomer and his allies,
Melchisedec met him in the valley of Shaveh, in the King’s Dale, and
tendered to him and his weary troops, a refreshment of bread and wine.
He also blessed Abraham, and thanked God for giving him the victory.
Abraham acknowledged him the Priest of the Most High God, and gave him
the tenth part of the spoil.  Perhaps this was to shew God’s approbation
of Abraham’s conduct, and to point out the future victories of our Lord
Jesus Christ on the Cross, in the hearts of his people, and, finally,
over mystical Babylon, and its kings—the recovery of his elect, who lay
in the hands of Satan, Sin, and Law; and of whom the Father had
covenanted with his dear Son, _that he should divide the spoil with the
strong_, because _he poured out his soul unto death_.  While all who are
interested in this great Work must exclaim, _Unto him that washed us from
sin in his own blood_, _to him be glory_.  _Amen_.

_Now consider how great this Man was_, to whom Abraham gave the tenth of
the spoil, and that blessed Abraham; and truly the less is blessed of the
greater.  May God the Holy Spirit assist us in our views of this great
Man, the God-man Mediator, the Priest, the King, the All in All.

We shall notice the opinion of others.  We propose then to examine the
Scripture testimony of this great One, and to answer the objections which
rise in the mind, concerning the reality of this Person being _Lord_ and
_Christ_.  We shall finally notice the Nature of his Blessings.

I believe the general opinion of this great Man is, that he was some King
of Canaan, who was a good man, but whose genealogy cannot be traced.  The
Jews and Samaritans will have him to be Shem, their ancestor.  The
Arabians suppose him to be Ham.  Dr. Owen will have him to be a
descendant of Japhet; but how a descendant of Japhet came to be a king of
Canaan, I know not.  Some are inclined to think he fell from the Moon.
But all these ideas are too mean, and none of them agree with what the
Holy Ghost has said of him.  Many years ago there was a Sect of
Melchisedecian Heretics, who held that he was some celestial power or
virtue not revealed; but that he was superior to Christ, and made
intercession for angels, as the Saviour did for Men.  The most general
opinion is that he was merely a figure or type of our dear Lord; but we
are about to prove he was more than the figure—he was the adorable
Redeemer himself.  We are not to make any thing in Scripture a type when
the Scripture declares it is a substance, and infinitely exceeds all the
figures.  Our dear Lord is certainly represented by many figures, but in
the case before us he is not; for the Apostle, treating upon the Subject,
not considering it as mystical but real.  He is not explaining a mystery,
but merely commenting upon a reality.  _Now consider how great this Man
was_.—Perhaps no subject in the Bible has had a greater diversity of
opinions than this, and the reason is, because Men are so dissatisfied
with the Spirit’s testimony concerning him: let us therefore notice the
Apostle’s own words, and follow him in his comment, and there rest
satisfied.  This will lead us to answer a few objections as we proceed.

The Apostle in this grand Epistle, is setting before the believing
Hebrews the Dignity, Majesty, and Glory of Christ, as the Christ of God.
He first proves him to be God over all, equal with the Father in power
and glory, in all his essential attributes.  He then shews _how far he
excels the angels_, they being the work of his hands, and he their great
Creator; and having accomplished the great Work of Atonement, he has
entered into his joy, and is now representing our Persons before the
throne; and as our great High Priest, still pleading the virtue of what
he has done, before the Father.  In the three following Chapters he shews
the necessity there was that Jesus, our great High Priest, should be
tried by temptation, that he might know how to succour the tempted—that
his people, by believing, might find a Sabbath of Rest in him, he
encourages them to hold fast their profession, seeing our great High
Priest is passed into the heavens for them; and as he knew what sore
temptations meant, they might warranty apply to him for all that grace
they wanted in time of need.  This is sweet encouragement to the Lord’s
tried ones.

In the 5th Chapter, the Apostle carries on the subject of the Priestly
Office of Christ, knowing it to be of such vast importance to the Church.
He shews the commission of Jesus to act as High Priest, and they, the
Hebrews, well knew that no man had a right to this Office but he that was
called of God, as was Aaron.  So our dear Lord was called to it in the
Covenant, in which the Father glorified him, and as God-Man Mediator,
called him Son, and told him he should be a Priest for ever, after a
peculiar Order, that is, of Melchisedec: his own Order, not of Levi or
Aaron’s, but his own divine Order.—The Apostle then complains of these
Believers, they were dull of apprehension, or else he would tell them
many more very great things; but they had had the Gospel preached to them
nearly thirty years, yet had made little or no progress in the things of
God.  He complains that they were but babes in knowledge, unskilful,
weak, and had got no further than the first principles of the christian
Religion, which he begs they will leave, and press after greater lessons
in the School of Christ, namely, The final Perseverence of God’s elect,
though they might backslide, and even some of them go such sad lengths,
as even to give up their profession for a time, that nothing short of the
precious blood of Christ applied to their hearts by the Spirit, could
ever renew them to Gospel repentance.  Ministers could not—they could not
do it themselves—but a sight of Christ, put to open shame for them, would
ever accomplish it.

The Apostle proceeds to stimulate them to persevere in the good ways of
God, notwithstanding their weakness, sins, infirmities, strange feelings,
and at times, want of confidence—no heart to pray or believe, but all
deadness, darkness, and sorrow; amidst all oppositions, yet to keep on,
encouraged by this, that a covenant God had provided every needful mercy
in Christ; that he has covenanted with him, and all his seed in him, that
they might have hope in his faithfulness, and not in their own feelings
or experience, which would waver, or change.  But for the further
encouragement of that hope, he would have them remember, that Christ is
their Head and Representative—that the Father’s love is the same to them
as to him; that Christ and they are one; that they are beheld in him
complete; and that as their High Priest, he is perfect—done a perfect
Work; that he ever lives, and that his great Work he is now doing in
heaven, and will live to do for ever, is simply, to bless his people, as
he blessed their father, Abraham, when he returned from battle.  And now,
oh ye believing Hebrews, _Consider how great this man was to whom Abraham
gave a tenth part of the spoil_.

Passing by the curious conjectures of men, let us attend to the mind of
the Spirit, and by close attention it will be clearly seen that the
Melchisedec which met Abraham was the adorable Redeemer himself.  We
begin with the 6th verse of me 5th Chapter—_As he saith also in another
place_, _THOU art a Priest for ever_, _after the Order of Melchisedec_,
_WHO in the days of HIS flesh_, _offered up strong cries and tears to
God_, _and was heard in that HE feared—though HE were a SON_, _yet
learned HE obedience by the things which HE suffered_, _and being made
perfect_, _HE became the author of eternal salvation to all that obey
HIM_; _called of God an High Priest_, _after the Order of
Melchisedec_—_of whom we have many things to say_, _and hard to be
uttered_, _seeing ye are dull of hearing_.  Can any point be more clear
than this; The terms _Thou_, _Who_, _He_, _a Son_, _Him_, in the _days of
his flesh_—and surely if Melchisedec had been a mere Man, Paul would not
have complained of the Hebrews being dull of understanding this Subject,
of God manifest in the flesh, before his incarnation, when he met
Abraham, and afterwards by actually taking our nature.

I would observe the connection between the last verse of the 6th Chapter,
and the opening of the 7th.  The Apostle, encouraging Believers, who fled
for refuge, tells them their fore-runner is gone to heaven, and is acting
there as High Priest for them, after the Order of Melchisedec—it is
essential to this Order only to make intercession in heaven.  From which
passage we may then conclude, that Melchisedec and the second Person in
the ever blessed Trinity were, and are the same; for none but Christ in
our nature ever did, or will intercede for us in heaven.

The Apostle then goes on with this Subject in the 7th Chapter.  After
declaring this Melchisedec is in heaven, interceding according to his own
peculiar Order, he adds, _For THIS Melchisedec_, _King of Salem_, _Priest
of the Most High God_, _who met Abraham returning from the slaughter of
the kings_, _and blessed him—to whom also Abraham gave a tenth part of
all_.  First, being, by interpretation, _King of Salem_, which is, _King
of Peace_—he being _without Father_, _without Mother_, _having neither
beginning of days nor end of life_, _but made like the Son of God_,
_abideth a Priest continually.—Consider now_, _how great this man
was_.—It is my grief, I cannot read the Greek for myself; but upon good
authority I have to remark, that the verb Substantive not to be used here
in any tense, but must be read _Person_—and _is_ instead of _was_—so the
text should be read, Now consider how great this _Person is_—the Person
who continues a Priest for ever, spoken of in the close of the 3rd verse,
and which must be read in the tense the Apostle speaks it.  From which it
appears plain, that the Person who in the text met Abraham, is now in
heaven, interceding for his Church.—Abraham gave him the tenth of the
spoil, and therefore acknowledged him to be his divine Priest and King.
The Apostle then proceeds with the Subject, and says, (5th verse) that
this glorious Person, this High Priest is not of the descent of Levi, not
at all of that tribe—as all Priests that belonged thereto were imperfect
and died, but this Melchisedec now receiveth tithes, because he is our
ever-living Priest.  And at the close of the 8th verse the Apostle says,
It is witnessed of him that he liveth, that is, that he is alive now—and
in the 3rd verse says, he abideth a Priest continually.  This surely can
never be said of any mere man, of any typical character, of any
Canaanitish King, or any Priest, but our great Melchisedec.  Some may
object that he may be said to live as many departed saints do, but then
it could not be said of him that _he continued to live in his Office_,
_as a Priest for ever_.

I think this Subject appears more clearly by the titles the Holy Ghost
gives him.  The Apostle having asserted the identity of the Person, goes
on to prove the fact, by the name Melchisedec, _King of Righteousness_.
This title belongs to Jesus only, of whom it was prophesied, _Behold a
King shall reign in righteousness_, _and Princes shall rule in judgment_.
This was first accomplished upon the ascension of our dear Lord, when he
was exalted at the Father’s right-hand, and the decree went forth that
all men should bow to him.  This shews him to be the righteousness of his
people, and that he fills Zion with it; and that one day he will appear
as the judge of quick and dead, and act before assembled worlds, as a
righteous Judge—_King of Righteousness_.

The next title is _King of Peace_—as the author, the preacher, and
revealer of all Peace, external, internal, and eternal.  This title some
have conjectured belonged to some Canaanitish king who reigned in Salem,
afterwards called Jerusalem.—But the Apostle tells the Hebrews to regard
the meaning of the title, _King of Peace_—though the time of his actual
reigning in Jerusalem was not come, nor will it till the latter day
glory.  At present he is King of Peace, in the Gospel, in the Conscience,
and in Mount Zion.—_Without Father_.—The human nature he had assumed at
that time, in which he appeared to Abraham, was without Father or Mother,
without Descent; for as a Priest, the Apostle is proving the fact, that
he had no predecessors or successors, so of course, unlike the tribe of
Levi.  As God, he was without Father; the divine nature was underived,
not begotten.  He is the Son of God, in his official capacity, but not in
the divine essence.  His human nature was without Father—“The Son of Man
but no Man’s Son,” _Erskine_.—_Without Mother_.  The body, the likeness,
the form in which he appeared to Abraham, was without Mother, for it was
many years afterwards he was born of the Virgin; and though she had the
honour to bear him yet she was purely passive is the act of the formation
of his nature.  In these same senses he was _without Descent_—he had no
predecessors or successors, as God, or as the High Priest of our
Profession.  Hence he is said to be the first and the last; if so, then
there were none before him, and there can be none after him.  The
objection to this expression is, that it only refers to a want of the
knowledge of his Genealogy; but though this might be the case of some
persons, or of any, yet they certainly descended from some one.  It might
as well be argued that because I stand alone, and never heard of any one
relation in the world, that I was without descent.  But then the Apostle
speaks in stronger terms still, and which can only be applied to Divinity
itself—_having neither beginning of days_, _nor end of life_: this
expression must refer to his Divine Nature.  He is himself the beginning,
in whom God made all things.  In the beginning God created Heaven and
Earth; that is, in Christ; he was in the beginning with God, one with him
in the council and secret purposes of God; as well as the everlasting
God; nor will he ever die as Man any more.  As Priest he never did die at
all; as God, in his Divine Nature, it is impossible.  As the glorious
Mediator, he ever lives, and all who are united to him live also.—

_But made like the Son of God_.  This expression, _like_, seems dark to
many at first sight, but when we look at the Subject altogether, it is
very clear that none can be like God but God himself.  None can be like
such a Priest, after such an Order, but the High Priest, Jesus himself.
The body he was to assume from the beginning, he frequently assumed a
likeness of.  Hence Nebuchadnezzar saw one like the Son of God in the
Furnace.  Now no christian can for a moment disbelieve that this was
Christ; and that, long before his incarnation, the likeness that appeared
was the likeness of his body, now glorified.  This appeared to Joshua, to
Moses, to Lot, to Abraham, Jacob, Ezekiel, and John.—These all saw the
likeness of the body that is now in heaven.  So that this Son of God
appeared like the Son of God, after his glorification.  He loved our
nature so well that he anticipated the assumption of it; he rejoiced in
the habitable parts of the earth, and _his delights were with the Sons of
Men_.  This the dear Redeemer shewed frequently, by his visits to our
earth, in the likeness of that body which is now raised and glorified,
and to which likeness the bodies of God’s elect are predestinated to be
conformed.

I would make the remark here, as we have answered the above objection, so
another is started, _How_, _and in what sense could this Melchisedec
receive tithes_?  And, if a divine Person, _What did he do with them_?
On this I must confess there is a difficulty.  Paul says he _met_
Abraham—yet the word (as say the learned) means _being in company
together_.  We shall now investigate this Subject a little, and attend to
its signification.

If this Melchisedec was only a Canaanitish King, I can see no reason why
Abraham should give him the tenth of the spoils he had taken in battle;
for I do not read of any king assisting in this war, or even minding the
stuff, or guarding the coast; for it seems to have been a law among the
warriors to divide the spoil, as in the 1st of _Samuel_, 30th Chap.  _But
as his part shall be that goeth to battle_, _so shall his be that
tarrieth by the stuff_, _they shall part alike_.  Now considering how
great this Man was (or this Person _is_) to whom Abraham gave the tenth,
we are prone to ask those questions that are of no importance to us, as,
If this was Christ, what use could they be to him—and what did he do with
them?  We may as well ask, How the Lord and his attendants eat, when
Abraham made an entertainment at the tent door—they appeared to him to
eat.  So, after his resurrection from the dead they gave him a piece of
broiled fish and of an honey comb, and he took it, and did eat before
them.  This may lead us to ask still more curious questions, as, What
body was it in which our Lord made those appearances, and what became of
it?  These things we must die to know; it is but of little consequence to
us now—what tithes Abraham gave him he knew how to dispose of.—But in
this instance the glory of our Lord appears; for it is clear no man on
earth was so great as Abraham; so the Apostle argues, _and truly the less
is blessed of the greater_—Abraham, the less, was blessed of Melchisedec,
the greater.  This was peculiar to his Order only, nor does there want
another Priest to arise after his similitude, seeing he ever liveth to
represent his people.

There was undoubtedly something of importance in this act of Abraham’s,
and in which we may see, _First_, Abraham’s gratitude to the Captain of
his Salvation, who had given him success in this war, which was just and
necessary.  So we find the Israelites devoted a part of the spoils taken
in battle, to the Lord, and the rest was divided among them, (See
_Numbers_ xxxi, 25 v. to the end).—When Jacob vowed to the Lord, he said,
_Of all thou shall give me I will surely give the tenth unto thee_;—and
hence in his posterity we find the tenth of their portions were to be
consecrated to the Lord, and this tenth, so devoted, was a type of God’s
elect, Jews and Gentiles, who were to be devoted to his service.  God, by
the Prophet _Isaiah_, Chap. vi, says, _But yet in it shall be a tenth_,
_and it shall return and shall be eaten_.  Abraham giving the tenth to
Melchisedec, and keeping the rest, (thus dividing the spoil) was an
exhibition of what the Saviour would do, actually, when he should divide
the spoil with the strong; when he should rise up early to the prey, and
in the evening of his death divide the spoil—give to God’s Law and
Justice infinite satisfaction—to his people all the blessings he secured,
and get to himself a name above every other, that at his name every knee
should bow.—Thus he divides the spoil, because he poured out his soul
unto death.  So in the hearts of his elect, by the conquest of his grace,
when he spoils the works of the Devil in us, as well as for us, and by
Faith, leads us to get victory over every sin and every fear, and enables
us to give him the heart in a way of love, the mind in his service, and
all our powers devoted to his glory, body, soul, and spirit, time and
talents: this is giving him the tenth.  We have got the blessings he has
enabled us to get by Prayer and Faith, and we give him the glory due to
his holy name—while he oft refreshes us with himself as the Bread of
Life, fills us with the Wine of his love, and blesses us with communion
with himself—so we give him tithes of all—hence the Apostle says, _that
he now receiveth them_.—_Thirdly_.  This act may be a type of that
important period when our glorious High Priest will receive his elect at
his second coming, when the faithful of whom Abraham was a figure, will
come from their graves, and meet Jesus—and he will come from the third
heaven and meet them, introduce them into the heavenly country, the new
heaven and earth.  Here our Priest will bless us, and here we shall cast
our crowns at his dear feet, and sing—Worthy the Lamb that was slain.
Thus we shall give him tithes of all.

The Dignity and Identity of this glorious Person may be clearly seen by
the nature of his Priestly Office—this is what the Apostle is proving by
a quotation from the 110th _Psalm_—_Thou art a Priest for ever_, _after
the Order of Melchisedec_.  How mean is the common idea that he was a
Canaanitish king, and that Christ is a Priest after his order.  Had
Christ been constituted a Priest after any Order of human Beings, it
would have been after the Order of Aaron, a Priest of God’s own
appointment; but Christ is a Priest after his own Order.  When God means
to swear he swears by himself, because there is no greater—when he means
to draw a similitude of himself he likens himself to himself; and when
Jesus reveals himself as a Priest after an Order, it is his own Order,
and his glory will he not give to another.

The Apostle in this Epistle, is setting forth the Divinity and Glory of
Jesus, as God-Man Mediator; and shews how far he excels angels, and then
how far he excelled Moses.  He then points out how far he excelled Aaron;
and in his Office of High Priest, how far he excelled all the Priests of
the Levitical Order—they were mere men, he the God-Man—they were mortal
and died, he was immortal, and ever lived.  The fact is, that the Son of
God having finished the great Work of Redemption, sat down on the
right-hand of God, agreeably to what is said in the 110th _Psalm_—_The
Lord said to my Lord_, _sit at my right-hand_, _for THOU art a Priest for
ever_.  This makes it evident that the Priests under the Old Testament
Dispensation typified Jesus, as exercising his Priestly Office before his
ascension; but the Order of our Melchisedec is appearing in a glorified
state, at the right-hand of the Majesty in heaven, representing and
blessing his people.  This is the Order the Father appointed him, and in
this he continues.  This he revealed to Abraham, and in the act of
blessing him shewed what he was to be and do, upon his glorification,
after his battle was over, of which Abraham’s war was but a faint shadow.
That Melchisedec is the Son of God appears evident from his call to the
Priesthood.  So the Apostle has coupled these two texts together in the
5th Chapter—_Thou art my Son_, _this day have I begotten thee_.  _As he
saith_, _also_, _in another place_.  _Thou art a Priest for ever_, _after
the Order of Melchisedec_.  From which we must infer that Melchisedec is
the eternal Son of God—for God declaring Christ to be his Son, was at the
same time constituting him a Priest for ever, after his own Order, as
King of Righteousness and Peace, fulfilling the one, and making the other
for his Church.  Upon his ascension he was to abide a Priest and King for
ever—the eternity of his Priesthood clearly demonstrates the fact—the
term _for ever_—a Priest _for ever_.  This was essential to his Order,
eternal Priesthood, therefore he must be eternal, which could never be
said of any mere man—of course the Son, or second Person, is the
Melchisedec that met Abraham, that now _liveth_ and _abideth_.  The
Apostle also declares that his Order is Perfection, and the Power of an
endless Life, in opposition to the Levitical Priesthood, which was
imperfect, and they carnal men.—The Father’s language to the Son in the
110th _Psalm_, according to the learned _Morrison’s Scripture
Dictionary_, is rendered literally in the original, _Jehovah hath sworn_,
_and will not repent_, _Thou art a Priest for ever_, _upon or according
to my Word_, _O MELCHISEDEC_.  This is addressed from the Father to the
Son, and to no other Person.  On this verse, the good Dr. _Hawker_
remarks, that the Psalmist is tracing up the Subject to the everlasting
Council of Peace between them both, in Jehovah swearing-in Christ into
his Priestly Office, even that of an everlasting Priesthood.  These
things cannot be said of any mere man; nor does it any where assert that
Melchisedec was a type—but the above arguments clearly prove he was the
eternal Son of God; and to doubt this, or be ignorant of it, the Apostle
declares the Hebrews were dull of hearing; and surely so are many of
God’s people, to this day, upon this Subject—therefore, _Consider now how
great this Person is_—he is called the great God, the great Saviour,
great King, great Prince, great Shepherd, great High Priest; great in his
nature, his love, his mercy, his wisdom, his glory, his grace, his power;
and these he delights to shew to his dear people, who are called upon to
consider him—these are said to fly for refuge to him, to cast anchor
within the veil, either of his flesh, and lay hold of his eternal
Divinity, or into ultimate glory, and view Jesus as an ever-living
Priest, carrying on their cause, representing their Persons, pleading the
virtue of his blood and righteousness, and abideing till all his foes
become his footstool, and the mystery of God shall be finished; then the
Son will deliver up the mediatorial kingdom to the Father, and God,
Father, Son, and Spirit shall be all in all.

The last consideration is, _The Work he carries on as a Priest_, _under
this peculiar Order_.  The Priest under the old Law, no doubt, typified
him; but perhaps very little further as types than his death, or entering
into the Holy of Holies.  Here they as types fail, and we see Jesus of
another Order, and under a different view, upon his glorification, carry
on his Priestly Office in heaven.  Aaron the High Priest, in many things
typified him, tho’ Christ was not of that Order, but of the tribe of
Judah, of which Moses spake nothing pertaining to the Priesthood.  But
our dear Lord is become the author of eternal salvation to his people,
and still officiates as an High Priest after his own Order—and this Order
is not to make an atonement, or fulfil the Law, this he had done; but
exalted to _bless_ his people for ever.—This Office was shewed to Abraham
when Christ met him, and refreshed him with bread and wine, a figure of
his body and blood, which were to be offered up in sacrifice, and upon
that offering his intercession was founded, and all blessings are
dispensed by him, as it followed, and he blessed Abraham.  Hence, having
purged our sins, he has sat down at his Father’s right-hand to bless us
for evermore.  This is peculiar to his Order only, for this he ever
lives.  Perhaps every blessing he communicates as a Priest, is included
in that prescribed form the Priests used under the old Law, _Numbers_ 6th
Chap, verse 22, to the close.

He met, and blessed Abraham with Righteousness and Peace; and to this day
he gives the same to us, for as many as are of Faith are blessed with
faithful Abraham.  Hence the benediction, the Lord give thee Peace.  And
the Apostle says, He is exalted to give Repentance and Remission of
Sins—_thy sins are forgiven thee_; _go in peace_.  He blesses us with
converting grace.  God hath sent his Son to bless us, by turning us from
our iniquities, with a better righteousness.  David describeth the
blessedness of the man to whom the Lord imputeth righteousness without
works, with the adoption of children—to them gave he power to become the
Sons of God—with spiritual life.  The Lord commanded his blessing on
Mount Zion, even life for evermore.  He blesses them with his preserving
power; his guiding Spirit in all his Offices; the light of his
countenance; a new nature and a new name—these are all included in his
Priestly Benediction, which the Priests could only pronounce, and we can
only pray for, but which it is his glory to give, as our Melchisedec—_the
Lord bless thee and keep thee_—_the Lord make his face to shine upon
thee_, _and be gracious unto thee—the Lord lift up his countenance upon
thee_, _and give thee peace_.  _And they shall put my name upon the
Children of Israel_, _and I will bless them_.  This act of the Redeemer’s
intercession and blessing, is in an authoritative way—_Father I will that
those whom thou hast given me_, _be with me where I am_, _that they may
behold my glory_—which God grant us all.—AMEN.

                                * * * * *

Thus we have endeavoured to prove that Christ is the true Melchisedec,
without a type or figure—that he was not Shem, nor his Grandson, nor an
earthly King, however pious; but that it was Jesus appearing in the
likeness in which he should appear for ever, before the throne, to bless
his people in.  This fact we have attempted to prove from express
passages, from his glorious titles, from the peculiarity of his Order,
and the nature of his Work, as a Priest.

For a most judicious handling of this Subject I refer my Readers to
MORRISON’S BIBLIOTHECA SACRA—to which I am much indebted.




AN HYMN.


    KING of Salem, bless my soul!
    Make a wounded sinner whole!
    King of righteousness and peace,
    Let not thy sweet visits cease.

    Come, refresh this soul of mine
    With thy sacred bread and wine;
    All thy love to me unfold,
    Half of which cannot be told.

    Hail, Melchisedec divine!
    Thou great High Priest shalt be mine;
    All my powers before thee fall—
    Take not tythe, but take them all.

                                * * * * *

                                  FINIS.




***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CHRIST THE TRUE MELCHISEDEC***


******* This file should be named 58603-0.txt or 58603-0.zip *******


This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/5/8/6/0/58603


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

